README.md, before:

# Age Group Predictor

  - author: Dongchun Chen, Ismail Bhinderwala, Rashid Mammadov & Sienko Ikhabi

A data analysis project for DSCI 522 (Data Science workflows); a
course in the Master of Data Science program at the University of
British Columbia.

## Project Summary

Here we attempt to build a classification model using the Logistic Regression
algorithm which can predict whether an individual belongs to the senior (≥65 years) age group or 
the non-senior (<65 years) age group based on specific features. The model utilizes a supervised machine 
learning algorithm to identify patterns and relationships within the dataset to make accurate predictions.

The dataset used in this project is a subset of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2013-2014, 
created by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The subset was donated on September 21, 2023, 
and is designed for predicting respondents' age. The dataset can be found 
[here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/887/national+health+and+nutrition+health+survey+2013-2014+(nhanes)+age+prediction+subset).
The NHANES dataset collects extensive health and nutritional information from a diverse U.S. population, and this 
particular subset narrows the focus to selected features hypothesized to correlate strongly with age.

## Dependencies

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) 
- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- [VS Code Jupyter Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter)

## Usage

### Setup

> If you are using Windows or Mac, make sure Docker Desktop is running.

1. Clone this GitHub repository.

### Running the analysis

1. Navigate to the root of this project on your computer using the
   command line and enter the following command:

``` 
docker compose up
```
> [!NOTE]
> [Know Linux Issue](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI522-2425-group31_age-group-prediction/issues/54#issue-2706604764)
2. In the terminal, look for a URL that starts with 
`http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=` 
(for an example, see the highlighted text in the terminal below). 
Copy and paste that URL into your browser.

<img src="img/jupyter-container-web-app-launch-url.png" width=400>

3. To run the analysis,
open a terminal and run the following commands:

```
python scripts/01_download_data.py \
--url="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/static/public/887/national+health+and+nutrition+health+survey+2013-2014+(nhanes)+age+prediction+subset.zip" \
--output_dir=data/raw/

python scripts/02_clean_validate_save_data.py \
--input_path=data/raw/NHANES_age_prediction.csv \
--output_path=data/processed/cleaned.csv

python scripts/03_split_preprocess_data.py \
--input_path=data/processed/cleaned.csv \
--output_dir=data/processed \
--seed=522

python scripts/04_eda_with_validation.py \
--data_train_path=data/processed/data_train.csv 

python scripts/05_visualize_and_save.py \
--data_train_path=data/processed/data_train.csv \
--output_dir=results/figures 
```

### Clean up

- To shut down the container and clean up the resources, 
type `Cntrl` + `C` in the terminal
where you launched the container, and then type `docker compose rm`

## Developer notes

### Developer dependencies
- `conda` (version 23.9.0 or higher)
- `conda-lock` (version 2.5.7 or higher)

### Adding a new dependency

1. Add the dependency to the `environment.yml` file on a new branch.

2. Run `conda-lock -k explicit --file environment.yml -p linux-64` to update the `conda-linux-64.lock` file.

2. Re-build the Docker image locally to ensure it builds and runs properly.

3. Push the changes to GitHub. A new Docker
   image will be built and pushed to Docker Hub automatically.
   It will be tagged with the SHA for the commit that changed the file.

4. Update the `docker-compose.yml` file on your branch to use the new
   container image (make sure to update the tag specifically).

5. Send a pull request to merge the changes into the `main` branch. 

## License

The analysis report contained herein are licensed under the
[Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0) License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).
See [the license file](LICENSE.md) for more information. If
re-using/re-mixing please provide attribution and link to this webpage.
The software code contained within this repository is licensed under the
MIT license. See [the license file](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Updated model_fitting script and README

README.md, after:

# Age Group Predictor

  - author: Dongchun Chen, Ismail Bhinderwala, Rashid Mammadov & Sienko Ikhabi

A data analysis project for DSCI 522 (Data Science workflows); a
course in the Master of Data Science program at the University of
British Columbia.

## Project Summary

Here we attempt to build a classification model using the Logistic Regression
algorithm which can predict whether an individual belongs to the senior (≥65 years) age group or 
the non-senior (<65 years) age group based on specific features. The model utilizes a supervised machine 
learning algorithm to identify patterns and relationships within the dataset to make accurate predictions.

The dataset used in this project is a subset of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2013-2014, 
created by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The subset was donated on September 21, 2023, 
and is designed for predicting respondents' age. The dataset can be found 
[here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/887/national+health+and+nutrition+health+survey+2013-2014+(nhanes)+age+prediction+subset).
The NHANES dataset collects extensive health and nutritional information from a diverse U.S. population, and this 
particular subset narrows the focus to selected features hypothesized to correlate strongly with age.

## Dependencies

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) 
- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- [VS Code Jupyter Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter)

## Usage

### Setup

> If you are using Windows or Mac, make sure Docker Desktop is running.

1. Clone this GitHub repository.

### Running the analysis

1. Navigate to the root of this project on your computer using the
   command line and enter the following command:

``` 
docker compose up
```
> [!NOTE]
> [Know Linux Issue](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI522-2425-group31_age-group-prediction/issues/54#issue-2706604764)
2. In the terminal, look for a URL that starts with 
`http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=` 
(for an example, see the highlighted text in the terminal below). 
Copy and paste that URL into your browser.

<img src="img/jupyter-container-web-app-launch-url.png" width=400>

3. To run the analysis,
open a terminal in the jupyterlab and run the following commands:

```
python scripts/01_download_data.py \
--url="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/static/public/887/national+health+and+nutrition+health+survey+2013-2014+(nhanes)+age+prediction+subset.zip" \
--output_dir=data/raw/

python scripts/02_clean_validate_save_data.py \
--input_path=data/raw/NHANES_age_prediction.csv \
--output_path=data/processed/cleaned.csv

python scripts/03_split_preprocess_data.py \
--input_path=data/processed/cleaned.csv \
--output_dir=data/processed \
--seed=522

python scripts/04_eda_with_validation.py \
--data_train_path=data/processed/data_train.csv 

python scripts/05_visualize_and_save.py \
--data_train_path=data/processed/data_train.csv \
--output_dir=results/figures

python scripts/06_model_fitting.py \
  --train-data "data/processed/data_train.csv" \
  --preprocessor-to "results/models/" \
  --pipeline-to "results/models" \
  --plot-to "results/figures"
```

### Clean up

- To shut down the container and clean up the resources, 
type `Cntrl` + `C` in the terminal
where you launched the container, and then type `docker compose rm`

## Developer notes

### Developer dependencies
- `conda` (version 23.9.0 or higher)
- `conda-lock` (version 2.5.7 or higher)

### Adding a new dependency

1. Add the dependency to the `environment.yml` file on a new branch.

2. Run `conda-lock -k explicit --file environment.yml -p linux-64` to update the `conda-linux-64.lock` file.

2. Re-build the Docker image locally to ensure it builds and runs properly.

3. Push the changes to GitHub. A new Docker
   image will be built and pushed to Docker Hub automatically.
   It will be tagged with the SHA for the commit that changed the file.

4. Update the `docker-compose.yml` file on your branch to use the new
   container image (make sure to update the tag specifically).

5. Send a pull request to merge the changes into the `main` branch. 

## License

The analysis report contained herein are licensed under the
[Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0) License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).
See [the license file](LICENSE.md) for more information. If
re-using/re-mixing please provide attribution and link to this webpage.
The software code contained within this repository is licensed under the
MIT license. See [the license file](LICENSE.md) for more information.
